# Feedback

This is design feedback provided on May 26, 2022.

## APIs

This is not in the correct format. Fix this file so that it
is reviewable.

The correct format is this:

~~~markdown
## Human readable API endpoint name

* **Method**: `GET` or `POST` or whatever
* **Path**: The path of the API endpoint

Output:

```json
{
  ...
}
```

Description of what the endpoint does.
~~~

## Data model

* What is `usertype` on the foodie and owner models? Is it
  just "foodie" and "owner" or something like that? If so,
  that doesn't need to be there because the entity itself is
  the type of user.
* I would agree that the `restaurant <-> categories`
  relationship is a many-to-many.
* For the restaurant location information, please refer to
  [Falsehoods programmers believe about addresses](https://www.mjt.me.uk/posts/falsehoods-programmers-believe-about-addresses/)
* You may want to have a one-to-many relationship between
  `review <-> picture` and create a `picture` value object
  that has the foreign key back to the review. That way, you
  don't need 10 columns at least nine of which are nullable
* If you choose `skewered` for the review, then the foodie
  will only be able to enter reviews for restaurants they've
  skewered. If they should have the option to review
  restaurants just because they've dropped by one, then it
  should be `foodie+restaurant`.
* I'm a little worried about the reservation entity. I don't
  know the details of the API for OpenTable. You'll likely
  want to populate it from there, if they return the data
  that you need.
* You already have the `day` in the open hours entity. You
  don't need separate properties for each day in the
  restaurant. It'll just be a one-to-many relationship.
  Remove those open hours properties from restaurant and add
  the restaurant id to the open hours entity. That will also
  solve the problem of those restaurants that serve two
  different times of the day, like a dedicated lunch and
  dinner service.

## GHI

Ok. These are fantastic.

Because I can't easily read the API documentation, I cannot
ascertain if there are missing data for the proposed GHI.
Once the API stuff is updated, I can help with that
analysis.

## Integrations

Satisfactory.
